README.rst, before:

=====================================
tox-travis: Integrate Tox into Travis
=====================================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tox-travis.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tox-travis
    :alt: Latest Version

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/ryanhiebert/tox-travis.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/ryanhiebert/tox-travis

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis.svg
   :alt: Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis
   :target: https://gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge

tox-travis is a simple plugin for tox that allows you to use
Travis CI's multiple python version feature as well as tox's
full configurability in a straightforward way.


Usage
=====

Configure the Python versions to test with in ``travis.yml``:

.. code-block::

    sudo: false
    language: python
    python:
      - "2.7"
      - "3.4"
    install: pip install tox-travis
    script: tox

And it will run the appropriate testenvs,
which by default are any declared env with
``py27`` or ``py34`` as factors of the name.
If no environments match a given factor,
the ``py27`` or ``py34`` envs are used as a fallback.


Advanced Configuration
======================

To customize what environments tox will run on Travis,
add a section to ``tox.ini`` telling it what environments
to run under which versions of Python:

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    envlist = py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs

    [travis]
    python =
      2.7: py27
      3.4: py34, docs

This would run the Python 2.7 variants under 2.7,
and the Python 3.4 variants and the ``docs`` env under 3.4.

Note that Travis won't run all the envs simultaneously,
because it's build matrix is only aware of the Python versions.
Only one Travis build will be run per Python version,
unless other settings are specified in the Travis build matrix.

If you are using multiple Travis factors,
then you can use those factors to decide what will run.
For example, see the following ``.travis.yml`` and ``tox.ini``:

.. code-block::

    sudo: false
    language: python
    python:
      - "2.7"
      - "3.4"
    env:
      - DJANGO="1.7"
      - DJANGO="1.8"
    include:
      - os: osx
        language: generic
    install: pip install tox-travis
    script: tox


.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    envlist py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs

    [travis]
    os =
      linux: py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs
      osx: py{27,34}-django{17,18}
    python =
      3.4: py34, docs

    [travis:env]
    DJANGO =
      1.7: django17
      1.8: django18, docs

Travis will run 5 different jobs,
which will each run jobs as specified by the factors given.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 2.7, env: DJANGO=1.7

  This will run the env ``py27-django17``,
  because ``py27`` is the default,
  and ``django17`` is specified.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 3.4, env: DJANGO=1.7

  This will run the env ``py34-django17``,
  but not ``docs``,
  because ``docs`` is not included in the DJANGO 1.7 configuration.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 2.7, env: DJANGO=1.8

  This will run the env ``py27-django18``,
  because ``py34`` is the default.
  ``docs`` is not run,
  because Python 2.7 doesn't include ``docs``
  in the defaults that are not overridden.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 3.4, env: DJANGO=1.8

  This will run the envs ``py34-django18`` and ``docs``,
  because all specified factors match,
  and ``docs`` is present in all related factors.

* os: osx, language: generic

  This will run envs ``py27-django17``, ``py34-django17``,
  ``py27-django18``, and ``py34-django18``,
  because the ``os`` factor is present,
  and limits it to just those envs.


After All
=========

Inspired by `travis-after-all`_ and `travis_after_all`_,
this feature allows a job to wait for other jobs to finish
before it calls itself complete.

.. _`travis-after-all`: https://github.com/alrra/travis-after-all
.. _`travis_after_all`: https://github.com/dmakhno/travis_after_all

Configure which job to wait on by adding
the ``[travis:after]`` section to the ``tox.ini`` file.
The ``travis`` key looks for values that would be keys
in various items in the ``[travis]`` section,
and the ``env`` key looks for values that would be keys
in items in the ``[travis:env]`` section.

For example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [travis:after]
    travis = python: 3.5
    env = DJANGO: 1.8

Then run ``tox`` in your test command like this::

   tox --travis-after

If any configuration item does not match,
or if no configuration is given,
this will run exactly as it would normally.
However, if the configuration matches the current job,
then it will wait for all the other jobs to complete
before it will be willing to return a success return code.

If the tests fail, then it will not bother waiting,
but will rather return immediately.
If it determines that another required job has failed,
it will return an error indicating that jobs failed.

You can use this together with a deployment configuration
to ensure that this job is the very last one to complete,
and will only be successful if all others are successful,
so that you can be more confident
that you are shipping a working release.

Commit message:

Add docs for environment configuration

README.rst, after:

=====================================
tox-travis: Integrate Tox into Travis
=====================================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/tox-travis.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tox-travis
    :alt: Latest Version

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/ryanhiebert/tox-travis.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/ryanhiebert/tox-travis

.. image:: https://badges.gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis.svg
   :alt: Join the chat at https://gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis
   :target: https://gitter.im/ryanhiebert/tox-travis?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge

tox-travis is a simple plugin for tox that allows you to use
Travis CI's multiple python version feature as well as tox's
full configurability in a straightforward way.


Usage
=====

Configure the Python versions to test with in ``travis.yml``:

.. code-block::

    sudo: false
    language: python
    python:
      - "2.7"
      - "3.4"
    install: pip install tox-travis
    script: tox

And it will run the appropriate testenvs,
which by default are any declared env with
``py27`` or ``py34`` as factors of the name.
If no environments match a given factor,
the ``py27`` or ``py34`` envs are used as a fallback.


Advanced Configuration
======================

To customize what environments tox will run on Travis,
add a section to ``tox.ini`` telling it what environments
to run under which versions of Python:

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    envlist = py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs

    [travis]
    python =
      2.7: py27
      3.4: py34, docs

This would run the Python 2.7 variants under 2.7,
and the Python 3.4 variants and the ``docs`` env under 3.4.

Note that Travis won't run all the envs simultaneously,
because it's build matrix is only aware of the Python versions.
Only one Travis build will be run per Python version,
unless other settings are specified in the Travis build matrix.

If you are using multiple Travis factors,
then you can use those factors to decide what will run.
For example, see the following ``.travis.yml`` and ``tox.ini``:

.. code-block::

    sudo: false
    language: python
    python:
      - "2.7"
      - "3.4"
    env:
      - DJANGO="1.7"
      - DJANGO="1.8"
    include:
      - os: osx
        language: generic
    install: pip install tox-travis
    script: tox


.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    envlist py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs

    [travis]
    os =
      linux: py{27,34}-django{17,18}, docs
      osx: py{27,34}-django{17,18}
    python =
      3.4: py34, docs

    [travis:env]
    DJANGO =
      1.7: django17
      1.8: django18, docs

Travis will run 5 different jobs,
which will each run jobs as specified by the factors given.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 2.7, env: DJANGO=1.7

  This will run the env ``py27-django17``,
  because ``py27`` is the default,
  and ``django17`` is specified.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 3.4, env: DJANGO=1.7

  This will run the env ``py34-django17``,
  but not ``docs``,
  because ``docs`` is not included in the DJANGO 1.7 configuration.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 2.7, env: DJANGO=1.8

  This will run the env ``py27-django18``,
  because ``py34`` is the default.
  ``docs`` is not run,
  because Python 2.7 doesn't include ``docs``
  in the defaults that are not overridden.

* os: linux (default), language: python, python: 3.4, env: DJANGO=1.8

  This will run the envs ``py34-django18`` and ``docs``,
  because all specified factors match,
  and ``docs`` is present in all related factors.

* os: osx, language: generic

  This will run envs ``py27-django17``, ``py34-django17``,
  ``py27-django18``, and ``py34-django18``,
  because the ``os`` factor is present,
  and limits it to just those envs.


After All
=========

Inspired by `travis-after-all`_ and `travis_after_all`_,
this feature allows a job to wait for other jobs to finish
before it calls itself complete.

.. _`travis-after-all`: https://github.com/alrra/travis-after-all
.. _`travis_after_all`: https://github.com/dmakhno/travis_after_all

Configure which job to wait on by adding
the ``[travis:after]`` section to the ``tox.ini`` file.
The ``travis`` key looks for values that would be keys
in various items in the ``[travis]`` section,
and the ``env`` key looks for values that would be keys
in items in the ``[travis:env]`` section.

For example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [travis:after]
    travis = python: 3.5
    env = DJANGO: 1.8

Then run ``tox`` in your test command like this::

   tox --travis-after

There are three environment variables
that can be used to configure this feature.

* ``GITHUB_TOKEN``. This is *required*,
  and should be encrypted in the ``.travis.yml``.
  This is used as the authentication method
  for the Travis CI API.
* ``TRAVIS_POLLING_INTERVAL``.
  How often, in seconds, we should check the API
  to see if the rest of the jobs have completed.
  Defaults to 5.
* ``TRAVIS_API_URL``.
  The base URL to the Travis API for this build.
  This defaults to ``https://api.travis-ci.org``.
  A common override will be to the commercial version,
  at ``https://api.travis-ci.com``.

If any configuration item does not match,
or if no configuration is given,
this will run exactly as it would normally.
However, if the configuration matches the current job,
then it will wait for all the other jobs to complete
before it will be willing to return a success return code.

If the tests fail, then it will not bother waiting,
but will rather return immediately.
If it determines that another required job has failed,
it will return an error indicating that jobs failed.

You can use this together with a deployment configuration
to ensure that this job is the very last one to complete,
and will only be successful if all others are successful,
so that you can be more confident
that you are shipping a working release.
